Simon Wang: Where if you can use, this mic.

Simon Wang: Good morning, everyone. I'm Coleman, and our group are going to present the Intercompany bus route coordination.

Simon Wang: And these are our content of the page. We will first talk about the introduction and research question, the methodology and data collection, the preliminary analysis and findings, the insights and next steps.

Simon Wang: I would like to talk about the introduction. We will focus on KMB Route 272A and CT Bus Route 582.

Simon Wang: The discussion primarily focused on the two routes, and we will focus on these three things. The overlapping stop from University Station to Passett Court. There are total eight stations on this route.

Simon Wang: And the second thing is to simultaneous the bud arrive times. The last thing we focus is the differences in surface frequency.

Simon Wang: Our objective is to filter the coordinate timetable of the two bus routes.

Simon Wang: Let's take a look on KMB272.

Simon Wang: 8.

Simon Wang: It launched in 2015.

Simon Wang: And it runs between the University Station and Paseco. The service hour on Monday to Friday, Saturday, Sunday, and public holidays are the same. It's also from 6 a.m. to 12.20 a.m.

Simon Wang: And the train schedule is around every 5 to 10 minutes on the peak hours on Monday to 5 days. It's mostly from 7am to 9am. And the other times of the train schedule is around every 10 to 12, 20 minutes.

Simon Wang: And the full fare of this bus is cost $5.1. And this two image shows the difference cost

Simon Wang: Before or after the actual station.

Simon Wang: And let's take a look on CT Bus 5A2. It launched in 2024, runs between Passeko and Saisha. The service hour on Monday to Friday is from

Simon Wang: 8am to 8.30pm. On Saturday, Sunday, and public holidays, it's from 8am to 10pm. The train schedule is around every 20 to 30 minutes, and the full fare of this bus is cost 12.3 Hong Kong dollars.

Simon Wang: And the two images show the difference calls from… between… before or after the actual station.

Simon Wang: And these are our research questions. The first one is, how can timetable coordination of the two bus routes minimize passengers waiting time? And the second one is, how can the coordination be profitable

Simon Wang: for the two best companies, and I will pass to my groupmate to talk about the methodology and data collection.

Simon Wang: So, I'm going to talk about the methodology and data connection. First, we use Copilot and AI Assistant to help us write an email structure and send emails to bus companies, can be and city bus, and also the Hong Kong Transport Department for more detailed data for us to analyze this.

Simon Wang: However, we did not receive any useful information and data from the relevant departments. For example, city bus, you can see here.

Simon Wang: TD Bus replied that they could not disclose internal operational data for us, and also can be, although Canby mentioned the conditions they would consider for operating bus routes, they also did not provide any detailed data for us.

Simon Wang: Analyze.

Simon Wang: And the transport department stated that they would follow up with the benefit units, but we haven't received any related emails for now.

Simon Wang: without any useful information for those departments, we used DataGovHK to search for real-time bus arrival API data from KMB and CT Bus to conduct further analysis.

Simon Wang: And also, we did the first field study. We take simultaneous arrivals of

Simon Wang: two buses, and connect arrival time, and passenger number of both bus routes at the morning. And we found that most people chose to take the

Simon Wang: 27 to 8 bus, and we decided to simulate the scenario where 582 arrives 1 to 5 minutes early or late.

Simon Wang: Our next step is real-time data collection. We collect real-time data of bus arrival times of 2728 and 582 at every stop. We collected the data from 30th of October to 4th of November.

Simon Wang: One time in the morning and one time in the evening, and each period of the data collection lasts for 3 hours, with interval of 60 seconds.

Simon Wang: When running the code, it would first collect bus stops data of the two routes, and then collect real-time bus arrival times during the 3 hours each time.

Simon Wang: Did the, the photo, the collected data?

Simon Wang: N.

Simon Wang: And then, after the data is collected, it would be output as CSV files, like the table on the right.

Simon Wang: And next, we input the CSV files into the code to collect ETA data of the bus stops. Then it searched for simultaneous bus

Simon Wang: arrival times at overlapping stops of the two bus routes. Only arrival times with difference within two minutes were defined as simultaneous arrivals.

Simon Wang: And then it is presented more clearly through a table. The highlighted columns are time points of simultaneous arrival times of the two bus routes.

Simon Wang: After collecting the data, we did the first simulations. Like, the purpose of this is to see how the two bus companies can optimize their services, so therefore, we used the result from the data collection and asked the GitHub co-pilot to generate the arrival times for the new bus would

Simon Wang: 582 if the bus arrives at each stop. 1 to 5 minutes earlier, or 1 to 5 minutes later.

Simon Wang: We used the data in the morning of 13th of October, 31 of October, and the 4th of November, since these four days have more simultaneous time than the other days.

Simon Wang: And, like, this example, I used a

Simon Wang: the 31st of October to be the sample, and there's the bus arriving one minute earlier, so it can show the inbound bus schedule and the outbound bus schedule if

Simon Wang: The both… the bus arrives one minute earlier at each stops.

Simon Wang: And this is the result of the 15th of October. The existing data of simultaneous bus arrival is…

Simon Wang: 7 for inbound and outbound. And for inbound, we felt that if the bus arrived at this stop 1 or 5 minutes earlier, or 5 minutes later, only 4 simultaneous arrivals will be found.

Simon Wang: For our front, if the bus arrives at each stop 1 minute earlier, and there will be only 6 simultaneous arrival will be front.

Simon Wang: This is the 31st of October.

Simon Wang: The distinct data is 6 for inbound and 26 for outbound, and we found that, if the outbound buses, stopped one minute earlier, only one simultaneous arrival will be found, and if the bus stops 5 minutes later for outbound, only 5 simultaneous arrival will be found.

Simon Wang: And there's the data for 4th of November. The existing data is 5 minutes for inbound and 2 minutes for outbound.

Simon Wang: 5 for… 5 for inbound and 3 for outbound. And if the bus arrives at each stop 4 or 5 minutes earlier for inbound, only one simultaneous arrival will be found, and if the bus arrives

Simon Wang: at this stop 1 minute later, only 3 simultaneous arrival will be fine, but it is… the free is greater than the existing data, so we suggest there should be no change for the outbound bus schedule.

Simon Wang: There's the simulation for inbound.

Simon Wang: And there's the simulation for Outbound.

Simon Wang: And for the insights and next step, the preliminary insights we observed are that most passengers would choose to take 272A rather than 582. And if buses arrive 1 to 5 minutes earlier or later, less simultaneous arrivals are expected.

Simon Wang: And 1 minute earlier, 4 minutes earlier, and 5 minutes earlier, or 1 minute later, 5 minute later arrival of 582 at each bus stop on inbound trips could be better results in fewer simultaneous arrivals.

Simon Wang: And for the planned activities, we plan to go on the second field study, to take simultaneous arrivals of 272A and 582, and to collect arrival time and passenger number of both bus routes during morning peak hour.

Simon Wang: And for the second simulation.

Simon Wang: We are going to have the second simulation to see if 50% of 272A passengers would take 5A2 if 582 arrival time was 1 to 5 minutes earlier or later than the real arrival time.

Simon Wang: That's the end of our presentation. Thank you.

Simon Wang: Yeah, maybe, maybe I'll ask a couple questions first.

Simon Wang: If you go back to the slides on simulation.

Simon Wang: I think this is where, perhaps.

Simon Wang: I mean, the, the, the video.

Simon Wang: Right, so,

Simon Wang: Because I think we need to clarify a bit what is the ideal scenario, right? So basically, this course, we're trying to look at the reality first, and we acknowledge that the reality is suboptimal, right? So there's actually room for improvement. For example, in this case.

Simon Wang: We believe that if the two companies coordinate a bit.

Simon Wang: The two buses, or the buses of the two routes can arrive in a kind of a more evenly distributed than the waiting time can be minimized.

Simon Wang: It seems to me that… this animation

Simon Wang: Does not indicate very clearly, You know, what… What would happen?

Simon Wang: So, for example, when you say inbound and outbound, it's not very clear. Are you talking about, like.

Simon Wang: Leaving, or going to the train station, or…

Simon Wang: So, so, so I think we need a little bit of clarification here, and also exactly what has been simulated. Are you simulating the reality, or are you simulating the…

Simon Wang: The… kind of the optimal…

Simon Wang: outcome scenario. So, I wonder if you can just walk us through the process of the simulation so we can clarify a bit in terms of what has been simulated and how we can improve the simulation.

Simon Wang: This widow is… indicates the…

Simon Wang: reliability data from 30th of October, and you can see there is different times not on this video, and we simulate if

Simon Wang: 582, tech arrivals later or earlier, 5 minutes, and what is the difference compared the existing reality? So…

Simon Wang: You can see here, this page is the original and the reality data in… on 13th of October.

Simon Wang: And the other slides, like, this time slot is the results of simulation.

Simon Wang: So, you can see the insights for us is we suggest 5A2 can…

Simon Wang: Consider the time slot earlier or later to…

Simon Wang: To… to, to be less simultaneous arrivals.

Simon Wang: Okay, but if you go back to the previous

Simon Wang: slides, the, the video, yeah. So… so you are saying that…

Simon Wang: the… the tab which you label as original would be the reality, right? Yes. And then…

Simon Wang: The different tab would be to change it to, like, earlier, or…

Simon Wang: plus or minus 5 minutes. So what's the… what's the difference between the blue and the green?

Simon Wang: box.

Simon Wang: In the… on the screen. You mean the blue and yellow boss? Yeah, yeah, yeah, sorry, yellow, yellow and green. The… the yellow bars is the, the time slot

Simon Wang: Of simultaneous arrival spaces.

Simon Wang: Okay. And the blue… blue time slot is we didn't find has the simultaneous problem.

Simon Wang: Okay, so… I suppose you want to think about the audience, right?

Simon Wang: So, the audience of your report, or the presentation, you would assume they are transport department officials, and also the senior management of the two bus companies, right?

Simon Wang: So, what we need to deliver to them Should be a… Report, a proposal, basically.

Simon Wang: Alright, because one thing we have to consider is the total number of buses being dispatched.

Simon Wang: By both companies, through both routes, throughout the day.

Simon Wang: Is that me?

Simon Wang: And,

Simon Wang: that's… that should be the starting point of our discussion. We know there's this number of 272A and this number of 582 being deployed, being dispatched for the whole day.

Simon Wang: And that resources is fixed. We're not asking for extra resources, right? We're not asking for the two companies to

Simon Wang: you know, assign more drivers, or to deploy more buses, more frequent buses. What we're asking for is a different arrangement in terms of time. The timing

Simon Wang: Of the two bus routes in terms of coordination.

Simon Wang: And so that we will have a better or optimized arrangement, you see what I mean?

Simon Wang: So, if I'm the senior management of the two bus companies, actually, it has to be a coordination. So the question for the transport department staff or the senior management to ask you would be.

Simon Wang: What's your proposal?

Simon Wang: So, suppose I'm the KMB. How should I adjust the timetable of KMB? And… or I'm the city bus, how should I adjust the timetable of 582 so that we will have a better arrangement?

Simon Wang: you know, I don't think our goal is to reduce simultaneous arrival. Our goal is to evenly distribute the bus arrival throughout the day.

Simon Wang: In order to minimize the waiting time.

Simon Wang: Does that make sense?

Simon Wang: I don't know whether the simulation you have done achieved that goal.

Simon Wang: Simultaneous arrival, to some extent, to some extent, alleviate this, problem, because when the bus arrives a stop, the same stop, at the same time, then…

Simon Wang: as the reality shows, most of the people will just take 27… 272A, right? No people will take 5A2.

Simon Wang: So if we can reduce the number of simultaneous arrivals, say, Say, after 5 minutes.

Simon Wang: Of arrival of the, 272A.

Simon Wang: then there will be some space for the passengers arriving at the stop to get on 5A2.

Simon Wang: I think this is one way to…

Simon Wang: to reduce or alleviate the problem of this simultaneous arrival. I think this is the pro… I think part of the problem. Sure. I think the team has made very good progress, right? So our goal for now is to, kind of

Simon Wang: event the buses to arrive at the same time. Obviously, that's the first step, but… but as I mentioned earlier, our ultimate goal is to evenly distribute all the buses.

Simon Wang: Throughout the day.

Simon Wang: So that, the passengers will be served.

Simon Wang: in a way that can minimize the waiting time. So I think our ultimate goal is not just to prevent simultaneous arrival, but to

Simon Wang: To, ensure that all the buses would arrive, kind of evenly spaced

Simon Wang: Throughout the day. I mean, of course, that's a very, idealistic, sort of expectation, to what extent it can, be achieved.

Simon Wang: We don't know.

Simon Wang: But at least we should, try. You know, we can run some Python codes, we can ask AI to analyze all the data currently available, so that there could be some scenario that can be played out.

Simon Wang: That would be sort of the goal for the two bus companies to try to, accomplish.

Simon Wang: Yeah, I think for the existing scope is to focus on the morning peak hours. So, so far, this is the focus. Oh, okay. Yeah.

Simon Wang: I'm sorry, can… can… can I speak with Ken on this? Oh, okay, sure, sure.

Simon Wang: Set up, la. Kong, at the end of the day, or they show you how long is, like.

Simon Wang: Was it the other way around?

Simon Wang: off-peak hour.

Simon Wang: So, okay, so… Kodi, you know, rush hour.

Simon Wang: Google's big gap in Malaysia.

Simon Wang: case of legal… in case of all the seniors, or all they have…

Simon Wang: Create more value.

Simon Wang: day.

Simon Wang: At the end of the day, yeah, Simulation, data, segments.

Simon Wang: whatever background, and they say, dope or hango.

Simon Wang: I, I think it's, it's a very solid…

Simon Wang: You know, project, but then at the same time, we just have to clarify at the end of the day how we can make an argument that can be implemented. It has to be feasible, basically.

Simon Wang: Okay, I hope that makes sense.

Simon Wang: Hello.

Simon Wang: I have another question. So here, the threshold is set as 4 minutes, but

Simon Wang: As mentioned in the, in the code.

Simon Wang: the threshold is set as 2 minutes, so is there any reason to… to change the threshold? I think it's just, a type wrong. I think it's because, it should be 2 minutes, and I will… I will revise it.

Simon Wang: I think overall, the flow is very clear to me.

Simon Wang: Thank you.

Simon Wang: Peter, we are not a solution.