Simon Wang: right back, maybe.

Simon Wang: Fantastic, testing.

Simon Wang: We need another mic.

Simon Wang: Thank you.

Simon Wang: This one.

Simon Wang: And click on the…

Simon Wang: Good one.

Simon Wang: Good morning, we are Group 5. Today, we're presenting our project on Green Eye Community Recycling Network Analyze.

Simon Wang: Our project begins with the Hong Kong government's ambitious waste preprints for 2035. The vision is waste reduction, resources circulation, and zero landfill. The key goal is to raise our city's solid waste recycling rates to 55%.

Simon Wang: To achieve this, the government has invented heavily… invested heavily in a primary strategy, the Green Edge Community Recycling Network, and we'll call it GSC later.

Simon Wang: This network of recycling stations, stores, and mobile sports is decided to make recycling convenient for every citizen.

Simon Wang: Diverted encouraged participation. The Green Dollar Participation Incentive Scheme, which we call PIC, was introduced.

Simon Wang: Citizens could be rewarded with Green Dollar for their recycling efforts, and can be redeemed for gifts. The Green Dollar PIC begins with the launch of the Green Dollar Smart Card in November 2020.

Simon Wang: And then expanded with the Green Dollar mobile app in January 2022.

Simon Wang: The GNC program has now been running for a decade since 2015 as the flagship comprehensive recycling program aiming for waste reduction. But after 10 years and massive investment, here comes a critical question. Is it really actually working effectively?

Simon Wang: Public opinion is fixed, so we decided to conduct a data-driven evaluation.

Simon Wang: This brings us to two research questions that frame our entire project.

Simon Wang: First one, we want to evaluate its performance. We're asking that, to what extent is the GSC program effective, considering the impact and cost effectiveness?

Simon Wang: Second and four, based on our findings, we want to propose some solutions. So, our second question is that, how can the overall effectiveness of the GSC program be improved?

Simon Wang: To answer our research questions, we adopt a mixed-methods approach. For secondary data, we…

Simon Wang: gathered past records and official statistics, ranging from press releases, data government Hong Kong, to Hong Kong Waste Reduction's website.

Simon Wang: We focus on key performance indicators like recycling volumes, cost, and overall MSW data.

Simon Wang: For our primary data, we conduct an online survey with 128 responses to capture Hong Kong citizens' awareness, habits, and attitudes towards green-assea recycling.

Simon Wang: And all the primary and secondary data collected was formatted into Excel worksheet, and then analyzed with five coding using AI and Jupyter Notebook.

Simon Wang: However, the process was not straightforward. The biggest challenge was that the data is extremely fragmented. We spend a significant amount of time manually strapping information from long, complex

Simon Wang: legislation council documents to find basic operational factors. Key data points were often missing.

Simon Wang: We also sent a formal data request to the EPD, but unfortunately, we received no unreleased data.

Simon Wang: We are confident that the data what we did collect provides a solid foundation for our analysis, but this lack of transparency is a finding in itself and a major obstacle to public accountability.

Simon Wang: Looking at the demographics, you can see a concentration in younger age group.

Simon Wang: However, we made a conscious effort to distribute the web… the survey widely to ensure a mix of gender, ages, housing types, and employment status.

Simon Wang: that uses to reduce data biases. So, with this methodology established, we turn to data analysis to answer our first… our first research question.

Simon Wang: To answer our first question about overall effectiveness, let's first look at the inputs. As you can see from the chart, the investment and growth of GNC has been explosive.

Simon Wang: The number of public collection points grew from only 2 in 2015 to over 800 today, and the cost jumped by over 8,000%, from less than $6 million.

Simon Wang: Over $417 million last year. So, the government strategy is clear. Focus on building more and more recycling ponds.

Simon Wang: This chart shows Hong Kong's overall MSW recycling rate per capita, excluding the 2020

Simon Wang: COVID pandemic data, the rate has been stuck between 29% and 36%. This falls from the 15-50% target. We see small increase since 2020, but it is the rate far from impressive.

Simon Wang: Now, here is the most shocking number. After all the money and effort, Green has seen recorded only 1% of Hong Kong totals and messed up recycled. Just 1%. It's a tiny drop in a very large ocean.

Simon Wang: This shows green acid is not really helping the city improve. From our maintain flagship program, this impact is unaccessible, especially when the operating cost is to recycle 1 ton of waste is still over $10,000.

Simon Wang: Let's zoom in on GSC's own performance. And at first glance, GSC's internal growth looks positive.

Simon Wang: As the network expanded, recycling volume grew alongside it.

Simon Wang: However, we have identified a clear bottleneck. In 2024, the EPT expanded the network by a massive 260%,

Simon Wang: But recycling volume only increased by 55%. It is a classic case of diminishing returns. Simply expanding the network is no longer an effective growth strategy.

Simon Wang: This leads us to the core problem we identified from our survey.

Simon Wang: While convenience and awareness are important, they are not the main issue right now. The real problem is motivation. Despite 90% of respondents agreeing that recycling is important, and our regression analysis confirms this sentiment is strong no matter of age, over 60%

Simon Wang: have never used GSC in the past year.

Simon Wang: And over 75% of them know where their local GSC is. And…

Simon Wang: and foremost, it's less than a 15-minute walk away, and it seems to align with the EPD's 80% population coverage claim. When we asked non-user why they didn't participate, the answer is

Simon Wang: The top answer will simply no recycling habit, and don't want to bother. They know it's good for the city, they know where to go, they just don't go.

Simon Wang: This tells us the crucial point. The current incentive isn't strong enough to overcome the effort required.

Simon Wang: The Green Dollar Incentive Scheme is filling its primary purpose, which is to attract new recyclers. Our survey shows over 75% of GSC users were already recycling before.

Simon Wang: The program is primarily serving existing recyclers, not growing the base. Even among users, less than 60% have registered the Green Dollar PIS.

Simon Wang: Our regression analysis also found a statistically significant positive association between age and participation, possibly suggesting the correct

Simon Wang: The current incentive model with gift like rice and oil is narrowly targeted, and fails to motivate younger demographics with higher opportunity costs to engage in recycling.

Simon Wang: So why is the incentive failing? The reason is clear. It's severely underfunded. The budget for rewards is only 2% of the operating cost. And the government is spending half-billions on operations, but almost nothing on the rewards that actually motivate people.

Simon Wang: And the education part is questionable either. The EPD says all operators have met the educational event KPIs, but in our quiz, over 85% of them failed to correctly identify all the recyclable items.

Simon Wang: And over 60 respondents didn't know bubble wrap is recyclable at GHC, so we are concerned about the actual effectiveness of the current education strategy. And the most important point is that even though they knew what to recycle, over 50% still had never taken them to GHC in the past year.

Simon Wang: So we find that knowing is not enough.

Simon Wang: People can know what to do, but if there's no strong reason to do so, the knowledge doesn't lead to action. So, to conclude our answer for the first research question, we return to our survey experiment. At first, respondents' perception

Simon Wang: of GHC's effectiveness tended to be positive. But when we showed them the actual data, the high cost, the volume, and the tiny 1% impact, their opinion flipped.

Simon Wang: Almost half of them lowered their rating. The very unsatisfactory rating shot up by almost 20%. And this confirms our conclusion. While GHC may look good on the surface, a data-driven evaluation reviews

Simon Wang: It will be a high-cost problem with low city impact.

Simon Wang: And suffering from a fundamental failure to motivate new participants.

Simon Wang: So, the data has clearly shown why GHC is underperforming. And now, to answer our second research question, we'll share three key insights from our analysis.

Simon Wang: Our first insight is that GHC is facing diminishing returns. The data proves that simply expanding the network is no longer cost-effective. So therefore, our first recommendation is to pause the blind expansion.

Simon Wang: and reallocate the budget smartly. Instead of spending millions on new sites, these funds should be redirected. This turns the focus from building more to making what we have work better. And this is the essential first step to fixing the problem.

Simon Wang: And our second insight is that the core problem is lack of motivation, driven by a weak incentive scheme that receives only 2% of the operating cost. So this makes the EPD's new policy deeply concerning. They plan to force a complete digitalization, remove popular physical gifts, and limit monthly redemption.

Simon Wang: without consulting any environmental groups, and they're making incentive even weaker. This move devalues green dollars and creates digital barrier for elderly, who are the key active recyclers right now. So therefore, our recommendation to reverse this damaging policy immediately.

Simon Wang: And then use the founders to create incentives that truly motivate a wider audience. This means engaging stakeholders and using data driver methods like A and B testing, to see whether enhancing incentive works.

Simon Wang: and find the right rewards for different demographics. Perhaps high-value

Simon Wang: Ecological for young professionals, while retaining useful items for housemakers and eaters.

Simon Wang: Our final insight is that the GNC program is seeing a space of data charts. The data is fragmented, messy, and hard to find. This makes it almost impossible for the public to have a clear full picture of its performance.

Simon Wang: A key example is that for years, the government has claimed that its recycling network covers over 18%

Simon Wang: of the population. But how could they calculate this? We don't know. Even the OT Commission asked this same question back in 2018, but the calculation is still a blackboard.

Simon Wang: You cannot improve what you cannot measure.

Simon Wang: Therefore, our third recommendation is to deny data transparency. This means the government must first explain its population coverage claim.

Simon Wang: But more importantly, all the GNC's data, like cost, recycling volumes, and performance metrics, must be put in one place. We suggest a public dashboard on the government's own website, data.

Simon Wang: government.edk. This platform was created for transparent data, so the government should use its own tools for its own programs. These steps will build, publish.

Simon Wang: Public trust and allows for smart data-driven decisions, and it enables citizens' oversight, and will empower cities to hold the governments accountable for results, not just primates.

Simon Wang: Looking ahead, our plans for next two weeks is to refine this recommendation. We will research papers and successful recycling incentive programs in other places to provide solid, evidence-based examples for what a better system could look like in Hong Kong.

Simon Wang: In conclusion, the Green Community Program is at a critical crossroad.

Simon Wang: Our analyze shows that the certain strategy of war is better is not cost-effective, and is failing to move the needles on our city's overall recycling rates.

Simon Wang: To achieve the 2035 vision, a major strategical payway is needed, away from blind expansions and towards smarter incentive and transparent data-driven guarantee. This is the end of our presentation. Thank you.

Simon Wang: We are a little bit behind the schedule, so let's, very quickly…

Simon Wang: Due to Q&A, so can you go back to, the recommendation? I remember you got 3 recommendations, right?

Simon Wang: Okay, so, I think all this recommendation makes sense, but it seems like the

Simon Wang: first two recommendations are for the EDP, or for the government to actually,

Simon Wang: sort of modify their strategies or change the program itself, whereas the third one is more about data governance. So my… my suggestion would be, you probably need to strengthen the connection between the first two and the third.

Simon Wang: Because, whatever recommendation that you came up with,

Simon Wang: You know, in terms of how the government can do a better job, it's based on the limited data we can get.

Simon Wang: from the public sources, and also from the government staff's replies. And we assume that actually there's a larger amount of data that the EDP would possess.

Simon Wang: And, they are not using the data to make their decisions. So, I think, ultimately, our goal is to help the government to improve their data governance, decisions, or data governance, practices.

Simon Wang: And any recommendations we make, regarding how the government can do a better job

Simon Wang: must be preliminary, because of the limited amount of data that we can access.

Simon Wang: Rather, I think the more useful and valuable recommendation should be about how the government can take a data-driven approach and improve their data governance practices in order to reach

Simon Wang: better decisions. So, I think that's kind of the general comments I have, and see if Talia has anything to add, or any questions or comments from the team. I think overall it's quite complete. Yeah, well done.

Simon Wang: Thank you.

Simon Wang: Right, any, any question or comments? But, yeah, I do hope that we can see a kind of a more practical,

Simon Wang: recommendation at the end of the day, like, in, in… Yeah, we'll search for that more. Thank you. Alright, thank you.