CAUTION! EXTERNAL EMAIL (not being sent from @hkbu email system): Do not click links, open attachments, or respond to it unless you trust the email source/verify the identity of the sender by other means. 12/11/2025Dear Sir/Madam,Subject: Enquiry on approval criteria and coordination for overlapping bus routes (KMB 272A and Citybus 582) (Case Ref: 3-8988736848)Regarding your above case, the substantive reply of the Transport Department is as follows –"In planning the public transport service network, including the introduction of new franchised bus routes, the Transport Department will carefully consider various factors such as the existing and planned public transport services, the anticipated passenger demand, the potential traffic impact and the resource utilization, in consultation with the relevant local stakeholders and public transport service operators.Currently, KMB Route No. 272A (University Station – Pak Shek Kok (Pok Yin Road) (Circular)) serves as a railway feeder service for the passnegers at Pak Shek Kok to interchange to/ from the East Rail Line at the University Station.  On the other hand, CTB Route No. 582 (Pak Shek Kok (Fo Shing Road) – Shap Sze Heung (Circular)) mainly facilitates the residents in Pak Shek Kok to visit the Recreation and Sports Centre in Shap Sze Heung, as well as the users of the Recreation and Sports Centre in Shap Sze Heung to interchange to/ from the East Rail Line at University Station.  While both of these routes observe University Station, Hong Kong Science Park and Pak Shek Kok, they are performing different functions for various groups of passengers.  In view of above, this Department will review the service frequency and timetables of each route separately.  We will continue to closely monitor the operation of and passenger demand for the concerned bus services, and consider making appropriate service adjustments, including service level adjustments in response to passenger demand, when necessary.For more details of the considerations in planning the franchised bus services and guidelines on bus service adjustment, you may refer to the consultation papers of “Bus Route Planning Programme” which is available at our website as follows:-https://www.td.gov.hk/en/publications_and_press_releases/consultation_papers/transport_department/index.html&#34;If you have any questions about this reply, please contact us.Best regards,Hugo ChingCustomer Service Officer1823Tel: 1823Fax: 2760 1823Email: tellme@1823.gov.hkSMS: 6163 1823 (For sending and receiving SMS only)Service Disclaimer: www.1823.gov.hk/en/di.shtm
