Okay, so you have any update or anything you want to discuss on this project, we don't really know what is the input code. So where's the Google Docs? Which? Where did you update?

You only sit over what's your name. I know what's your name. Oh, yeah. We had lunch the other day, right? Yes, okay, have a seat. So basically, the next step you need to take is number one email the government department. So in this case, would be Department of Health, right? Because Department of Health is administering the flu shot program, alright? So the program would include the elderly and also the children, school children. Okay, so if you refer to the there's a couple of letters I published many years ago on this program, and then, so you can review those letters a little bit, but hopefully by before next Tuesday, you will send off the email inquiry to the Department of Health. So that's how you will be able to collect some data. Because our our intention is to evaluate the government's data governance practices over flu shot, over influenza vaccination program, right? And then also next week, actually, starting from today until next week, you need to collect some data from the field. So one possibility is to prepare a questionnaire and try to understand the parents intention. So what was, what are the parents perception over this program? Or it could be elderly. So you want to do a survey among the elderly people who are eligible for the flu shot program, so you can decide what kind of data you want to you want to collect. And as far as I know, the Department of Health actually monitor the influenza so they probably publish weekly update on influenza in Hong Kong. So you need to look it up, right? So the Center for Health Protection, which is a branch, a center under the Department of Health. So they actually, yeah, they actually offer updates. So let me share with you the link. In fact, I think I think you should do some research yourself, but I send you the link anyway. So it's the Center for Health Protection. There's a whole page on surveillance and and guidelines. So and everything, okay? So, yeah, so that's, that's basically what you need to do. Do you have any any questions?

You have to do a little bit preliminary data collection. But you know, it will take some time for you to actually run a surf survey, so probably within this week, you have to prepare some kind of questionnaire, like a plan if you if you would like to collect data in this way. There are other ways to collect data, but then you have to explore, and also it's important to email the government by next week, so hopefully you have a draft in terms of what question you'd Like the Department of Health to answer. Yeah, so, so, so possibly, you know Hospital Authority as well, because Hospital Authority may have data from last year in terms of how many patients were hospitalized because of influenza, because the severe cases, the data about severe cases are always of very interest. It's very interesting, because we want to see to what extent the vaccination program or people who have been vaccinated would have a lower likelihood to be hospitalized. So that's kind of like how we want to evaluate the effectiveness of the vaccination program, because the effectiveness of the program is not, definitely not 100% we're talking about 60% or something So, but, but, of course, it also depends on how you measure the effectiveness, right? So I think at this stage, the team needs to decide exactly how you want to evaluate the data governance of the Department of Health, but, but apparently, the decisions that Department of Health has made include things like who are eligible for the program and how They promote the program. I think in recent years that the government is trying to reach out to more school children through the schools. For example, the schools will circulate some consent forms for the parents to sign, and then the school children can actually take the shots on campus. So so that's that's actually some proactive measures being taken by the by the government, but to what extent they are effective that we don't know. So, so we have to go back to, like, very basic questions you ask is, like, how many people has been vaccinated, protected last year, right? We don't have data for this year. Just yet. We haven't entered a flu season. But for last year, for 2023, 2022 these are the data we can we can gather. We don't necessarily want to look at the data during the covid because that would complicate things. But if you are really want to have a more comprehensive review, you can even request data before the covid, right? So, so we definitely want to skip the years on covid, right? Because, because that would just get things more complicated, because during the coffee, people don't, don't have a whole lot of social interaction or anything. So actually, the infection rate for flu could be much lower. So do you have any questions in terms of the jet overall plan? I team. So I think I would suggest what you can do is the whole team, and can go somewhere to discuss, meet and discuss, and you can come back to us before you before you leave. We got the whole three hours before you come back to us. Tell us what's your plan. So hopefully you will have a more detailed plan before we finish today. Okay, there is

not much topic

except for the existing topics.

Is there any other topic that you originally you interested.

I think one other resources is the consensus. There are a lot of

references on the consensus. And the EU library actually subscribed the consensus website. So if you want some inspiration, maybe you could search some keywords on that website and see what topics previous scholars have started and maybe those papers were, I believe there must be some existing questionnaires studying about the obstacles of taking those shots studied by other people. Maybe those references may give you some ideas as well as

I've mentioned before, that we have to collect data from the select the field is, I think it depends on your research question. I think still the first step is to clarify the specific question that we will have to investigate. Say, if you want to investigate why people don't want to get vaccines, then that a questionnaire might be appropriate. You may ask their willingness and some potential inclusive factors of their wilderness. But if the topic is like whether the government used some very sophisticated models to predict the influenza season after there are there are a lot of very mature mass models to do this kind of prediction, but whether Department of Health really use those models, that's another question. So if the focus is there, then I think maybe, given your math students, maybe you could try to implement one of those models and try to compare with the prediction. That is also one possibility. So how the field is defined, or which methodology you will adopt, really depends on the research question. So I think the most important step is to find a research question that interests most of the team members. You think this question is interesting? Interests you? I think that is the most important and then we can discuss, how about the next step? What methodology is

appropriate, hopefully, because it may take some, some time, to search for relevant references like

I just mentioned consensus, there may be a lot of references,

so it may take some time to read those background information and also have this Question. Hopefully you have a director asking today's discussion.

I this discussion. So there is a few research question in so we need to

collect we need to choose one of them by yourself. These are just for yes, for us to interpret you to think about it, maybe

you say you could leave 20 minutes for all of you to read The reference or do some searching that you can discuss.

Reference, do some searching, then you can discuss, okay, all right, the group two. Group Two is the

bus route, bus route coordination, right? Let's see i

i.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
